
This was the question I asked myself when I started this case study. Exploration through touch is undeniably essential to the human experience. 

Wearable headsets have unlocked a remarkable ability to materialize abstract digital concepts into the space around us. We can now to 'hold' and 'touch' what was before stuck behind a screen.  I sought to leverage the unique aspects of spatial interfaces to delve deep into a concept in a way 2D design never could.

This case study harnesses the power of spatial data visualization to delve into the nuances and intricacies of color in a way that feels remarkably organic and fun. 

Why Color?

For this project I decided to center my focus on deceptively deep world of color. Color is a completely man-made quality created by our brains to help us understand the world around us. We as humans have developed remarkably intricate methods to deconstruct, classify, and manipulate color. 

Moreover, color is commonly broken down into three-dimensional systems—RGB, CMY, HSB— luckily mirroring the three spatial dimensions. As such, color lends itself very well to spatial design. 

<common color breakdowns>

Many designers have been made designs simplify 3D color values into 2D interfaces, forced to make compromises based on context.With spatial interfaces, I have found myself in a unique position to push past those 2D limits and explore beyond the boundaries of flat color pickers. 

<Color Selection Examples>

Narrowing Down on Form

Initially, I have planed on creating a cubed color space,  mapping Hue, Saturation, and Brightness to the XYZ axis. While this approach showcased promising results, it became clear that it fell short when dealing with hue.

<Cubed color-space>

Unlike saturation and value that both have minimums and maximums, hue is a contiguous value that loops. With that in mind, I pivoted towards a cylindrical color-space design.

This new design was comprised of a saturation/hue cross section of color-space mounted on a sliding axis of brightness and I felt it more accurately portrayed the behavior of hue. Goodbye color Cube hello color Tube!

<Cylinder Colorspace color-space>
