# Post-It Augmented Mural #
### Revitilizing a familiar brand with a novel experience ###

Wearables are poised to revolutionize the ways in which we interact with physical products. Although widespread adoption by consumers may still be on the horizon, the current capability to develop captivating product showcases already exists.

This project served as an exploration into the potential of AR wearables to offer a fresh perspective on a familiar, household brand. We selected Post-it due to it's popularity and unique branding. 

The project employed the use of AR wearables to guide users through the creation of large scale Post-it murals. The end result being both a personal immersive experience and a public, collaborative, stunning product display at the same time.


<!-- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -->

### Murals,Murals,Murals ##
We knew that getting a thorough grasp of the mural creation process was key. So, we dove right in and began both making and watching others make Post-it murals. Notes and observations from these sessions were compiled and refined into a journey map that broke down the mural creation process.

> Journey


As we got familiar with the mural construction process, we noticed several key pain points that could be tackled effectively by AR wearables.

Scale and location: People typically had a tough time envisioning how big their mural would be initially, often severely under-estimating the amount of space needed.

Grid Issues: People struggled with placing Post-its in a grid. To maintain a grid, people needed to build off of adjacent post-its, resulting in the need to carry multiple stacks at a time.

Following our research, we held a series of quick brainstorming sessions which resulted in a few different AR app concepts. Using Figma, we then created mockups that reflected these ideas and slowly worked on merging together what worked. At first, the app's layout was fairly simple, only utilizing a two-dimensional on-the-wall interface. But as we continued to iterate, more complex interfaces like hand menus and floating consoles started to be used.

> lo-fi

### Working our way through 3D layouts ###
This being the first time I had designed a 3D interface, I struggled with the best way to arrange content in space and decide which features should be available in specific contexts. Our layouts went through several rounds of redesigns before they started to become coherent. To help us stay organized, we created a simple outline that broke down the features available, the form they these features would take, and how they changed depending on which stage of process the user was on.

> Feature outline

From this outline we moved on to create some functional prototypes in Unity to test the effectiveness of an AR guide side-by-side with someone who was unassisted. 

> comparison video
